<div align=right><font color=silver size=6 face="微软雅黑">27</font></div>

# Adverbs
front, mid and end position

## saying where, when and how
We can say *where, when* and *how* with just **one word**, an **adverb** (for example: *home, tomorrow, automatically*). We use **adverbs** in the same way we use expressions with *at, in, on, to, for, with, by* etc.
|wh-||Subject|Verb|*Place/Time/Description*|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Where|did|you|go?||
|||*I*|*went*|**overseas**.|
|||*I*|*went*|to Africa.|
|When|is|the game?||
|||*It*|*is*|**tomorrow**.|
|||*It*|*is*|on Wednesday.|
|How|does|the door|open?||
|||*It*|*opens*|**automatically**.|
|||*It*|*opens*|by itself.|

These **adverbs** describe **where** things happen.

They have **general** meanings.
|Subject|Verb|Object|*Where*|
|---|---|---|---|
|He|went||**home**.|
|There|is|a shop|**nearby**.|
|She|took|her bag|**upstairs**.|
|I|'ll see|you|**around**.|
|The plane|flew||**up**.|

We also use *at, in, on, to, for, with, by etc. in these situations for **specific** information.
> He traveled **to** Africa.
>
> There's a shop **on** this street.
>
> She took her bag **to** her room.
>
> I'll see you **in** class.
>
> The plane flew **into** the sky.

These **adverbs** describe **when** things happen.
|Subject|Verb|Object|*When*|
|---|---|---|---|
|He|plays|tennis|**sometimes**.|
|They|exercise||**regularly**.|
|She|went|to work|**early**.|
|I|'ll see|you|**again**.|
> He plays tennis **on** Mondays.
>
> They exercise **at** 5PM.
>
> She went to work **at** 6AM.
>
> I'll see you **in** July.

These **adverbs** describe **how** things happen.
|Subject|Verb|Object|*How*|
|---|---|---|---|
|She|plays|tennis|**well**.|
|He|solved|the problem|**simply**.|
|We|went|to the park|**together**.|
|The bus|stopped||**suddenly**.|

---

## adding information to verbs
We use **adjectives** to add information to ***nouns***.
|*Subject*|Verb|*Object*|
|---|---|---|
|She|drives|a **normal** car.|
|He|spoke|with a **soft** voice.|
|The **lucky** man|won|the lottery.|

We use **adverbs** to add information to things that are not nouns. We add information to ***verbs***.
|Subject|*Adverb + Verb*|Object|
|---|---|---|
|She|**normally** drives|a car.|
|He|**softly** spoke.||
|He|**luckily** found|the ticket.|

There is often more than one way to think about things. The pairs of sentences below have the same basic meaning, so either one can be used in the same situation. Some adverbs can be used **before** the verb, or for added information at the **end** of the sentence.
> The bus **suddenly** stopped.
> - (**what** happened: *suddenly* describes stop)
>
> The bus stopped **suddenly**. (**how**: *suddenly* describes **how** the bus stopped)
>
> I **sometimes** play tennis.
> - (**what** happens: I sometimes play)
>
> I play tennis **sometimes**. 
> - (**when** I play: from time to time)

Adverbs that give an **opinion** go at the end. We are not simply saying what happens, we are saying **how** we think it happens.
> She plays tennis **well**.
> - (**how** she plays: what I think)
>
> He sang the song **perfectly**.
> - (**how** he sang: what I think)
>
> That'll do **nicely**.
> - (**how** it will do: what I think)

We put the adverb before verbs to say how **factual** something is or how **likely** it is to be **true**.
> He **definitely** did it.
> - (**what** happened: this is factual information based on evidence)
>
> I'll **probably** go shopping tomorrow.
> - (**what** is likely based on my plans)
>
> It's **certainly** a good idea.
> - (**what** it is: there is no question about it - it's a fact.)
>
> I **almost** lost my phone.
> - (**what** was close to happening. In fact, it didn't happen)
>
> I **just** finished in time.
> - (**what** was close to not happening. In fact, it did happen)

### Practice
Complete the sentences. Leave one space blank. There may be more than one answer.

**Example**: (suddenly) The bus <u>suddenly</u> stopped ____. - or (suddenly) The bus ____ stopped <u>suddenly</u>.
1. (here) We ____ sleep ____.
2. (quickly) He ____ picked up his bag ____.
3. (yesterday) I ____ went running ____.
4. (late) They ____ worked ____.
5. (poorly) The team ____ played ____.
6. (nearly) We've ____ finished the page ____.
7. (definitely) I can ____ help you ____.

---

## linking and emphasize
We move added information about time to the start of the sentence to emphasize it. We are talking about **when** we do particular things.
> We're going to the zoo **tomorrow**.
> - When is added at the end.
>
> **Tomorrow** we're going to the zoo.
> - There is more emphasize on **when**.
>
> We're going to the museum **on Monday**.
> - When is added at the end.
>
> **On Monday** we're going to the museum.
> - There is more emphasize on **when**.

We start sentences with adverbs to help put the sentence in perspective for the listener. We sometimes connect the sentence to what the listener knows or what was previously said.
|*Adverb*|Subject|Verb|Object|Time|
|---|---|---|---|---|
|Personally,|I|like|watching tennis.||
|However,|I|'ve never played|tennis.||
|Maybe|I|'ll try|it|tomorrow.|
> *We often use a comma (,) or a pause when speaking to separate the adverb from the rest of the sentence. We often use the adverb to give perspective, pause, then continue.*

We can also use *personally* before the verb because we are saying what I do.
> I **personally** like tennis.
> - (what I like)

We move *when* or *how* information to the start of the sentence for emphasize.
> **Suddenly**, the bus stopped.
> - (emphasize on **how**)
>
> The bus stopped **suddenly**.
> - (how the bus stopped)
>
> The bus **suddenly** stopped.
> - (what happened)
>
> **Sometimes** I play tennis.
> - (emphasize on **when**)
>
> I play tennis **sometimes**.
> - (when I play: from time to time)
>
> I **sometimes** play tennis.
> - (what happens: I sometimes play)

### Practice
Choose a position for the words in brackets. Leave the other spaces blank. 

Which do you think is best? There may be more than one answer.
1. (yesterday morning) ____ I ____ was half asleep ____. The doorbell rang.
2. (slowly) ____ I ____ crawled out of bed ____ and went to the door. It was the postman.
3. (suddenly) While I was talking to him, ____ the door ____ blew closed ____ behind me.
4. (unfortunately) ____ I was ____ locked out of the house ____, in my pajamas.
5. (luckily) I went around the back and ____ a window was ____ left open ____.

> Then sentences above are also good without adverbs. Adverbs used in this way provide additional information. Use them only when you feel they are needed.

---

## start, middle or end?
## sayinig how often
## negative sentences
## more than one verb
## one verb: be
## adverbs and adjectives
## a lot / any more